
## Daily papers

[TOC]

#### 2021-1-7 [Neutrinos from Beta Processes in a Presupernova: Probing the Isotopic Evolution of a Massive Star](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/aa95c4)

In a star's interior, neutrinos are produced via a number of thermal processes—mostly pair production—and via _β_-processes, i.e., electron/positron captures on nuclei and nuclear decay.

#### 2021-1-8 [Reconstructing Patchy Reionization with Deep Learning](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2101.01214.pdf)
1. Secondary anisotropies of CMB :weak gravitational lensing by large-scale structure,the various manifestations of the Sunyaev-Zel’dovich effect, which describe Compton scattering of CMB photons with free electrons in galaxy clusters and the intergalactic medium,the integrated Sachs-Wolfe and Rees-Sciama effects, characterizing how time-dependent gravitational potentials alter the energy of CMB photons; and the moving lens effect, where the transverse motion of massive objects imprints temperature fluctuations on the CMB.
2. Delensing.Delensing the CMB is useful beyond the benefits it provides for primordial gravitational wave searches. For example, delensing the temperature and E-mode polarization leads to sharper peaks in the power spectra, allowing for a better determination of parameters which impact peak positions. Delensing can also reduce the off-diagonal covariance induced by lensing  and thereby improve the sensitivity of the CMB to other effects, such as primordial non-Gaussianity.
3. Reionization, the process by which the neutral gas filling the Universe became ionized by the first stars and galaxies between redshifts of about 20 and 6, was a complex and non-uniform process. The spatial variations or patchiness in the process of reionization leads to effects on the observed CMB temperature and polarization. **Patchy reionization** can produce B-mode polarization, either by the modulation of E-mode polarization or by scattering of remote temperature quadrupoles, and these secondary B modes can potentially act as a source of confusion in searches for primordial gravitational waves.
4. The inhomogeneous nature of the reionization epoch causes several observable impacts on the CMB . The patchiness of reionization leads to an anisotropic optical depth whose effects on the CMB can be separated into three categories: screening, scattering, and the kinetic Sunyaev-Zel’dovich effect. First, the variation of the optical depth on the sky, $τ (\hat{n})$, leads to a spatially dependent screening of CMB fluctuations due to the scattering of CMB photons into and out of our line of sight. Next, Thomson scattering of remote temperature quadrupoles on the free electrons in ionized bubbles generates new polarization fluctuations. Finally, the radial velocity of ionized bubbles generates CMB temperature fluctuations through the kinetic Sunyaev-Zel’dovich effect. For the purpose of this paper, we focus solely on the screening effect of patchy reionization, since we are interested in the **effect that can be reconstructed from observations of CMB polarization alone.** The scattering effect results in new polarization that is not correlated with the polarization generated at the surface of last scattering, and the kinetic Sunyaev-Zel’dovich effect only produces temperature fluctuations.
5. Quadratic estimator. While the quadratic estimator works well with current data, it will be **sub-optimal** at the sensitivity anticipated in the next generation of CMB surveys. One reason for this is that higher order effects of the sources of secondary anisotropies become too important to ignore in very high fidelity CMB maps, and use of the quadratic estimator results in an estimate of the distortion field whose variance is limited by secondary anistropies rather than by instrumental noise.
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbNTAxMjA0NDA4LDExNDI4NzE0NCwxMDYxOT
k1NzE2LDE4ODQyMDEzODYsLTg3MDEwMDg4N119
-->